Support selfsigned certs for the dogu and docker registry. (#82)
cloudogu/k8s-dogu-operator: docs/development/how_to_offline_and_self_signed_en.md

# Offline use of the k8s CES with self-signed certificates.

> This document describes in keywords how to set up the k8s ecosystem with a local Docker and Dogu registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document gives a brief summary on how to set up the k8s ecosystem with a local Docker and Dogu registry.
```

      username: ces-admin
      password: ces-admin
      insecure: true
    webserver:
      type: remote
      endpoint: https://192.168.56.10/nexus/repository/k8s
      username: ces-admin
      password: ces-admin
      insecure: true

dogu:
  dogus:
    official/postgresql:
      - 12.10-1
      - 12.13-1
    official/postfix:
      - 3.6.4-3
    official/ldap:
      - 2.6.2-3
    official/cas:
      - 6.5.8-1
    k8s/nginx-static:
      - 1.23.1-3
    k8s/nginx-ingress:
      - 1.5.1-2

  docker:
    endpoint: unix:///var/run/docker.sock
  source:
    auth-backend:
      credentials-store: ces-mirror
      endpoint: https://account.cloudogu.com
      proxy:
        enabled: false
        server: localhost
        port: 3128
    dogu-backend:
      endpoint: https://dogu.cloudogu.com/api/v2/
      credentials-store: ces-mirror
      url-schema: default

  target:
    registry:
      endpoint: 192.168.56.10
      username: ces-admin
      password: ces-admin
      insecure: true
    webserver:
      type: remote
      endpoint: https://192.168.56.10/nexus/repository/mirror
      username: ces-admin
      password: ces-admin
      insecure: true
```

> - `go run . sync dogu auth`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `go run . sync dogu auth`
- `go run . sync dogu`
```

- `go run . sync k8s`

### Replace dogu operator in Nexus

> Attention this step is no longer necessary if the implementation for using self-signed certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attention: This step is no longer necessary if the implementation for using self-signed certificates
```

in the dogu operator has been released!

Replace Dogu operator yaml in Nexus:
- Change image tag in Makefile: IMAGE_DEV=192.168.56.10/cloudogu/${ARTIFACT_ID}:${VERSION}
- `make k8s-generate`

nexus -> browse -> k8s:
- delete k8s-dogu-operator/0.24.0
Upload Component:
- file: target/k8s-dogu-operator_0.24.0.yaml
- filename: 0.24.0
- directory: k8s/k8s-dogu-operator

## Preparation k8s-Ecosystem

### K3S

- Configure setup.json in `k8s-ecosystem` that any completed is `false`
- `vagrant up`
- Save the certificate from the ecosystem `etcdctl get config/_global/certificate/servert.crt` in `k8s-ecosystem/cert.pem`
- Certificate distribution:
    - `vagrant ssh main`
    - `sudo cp /vagrant/cert.pem /etc/ssl/certs/cert.pem`
    - Edit registries.yaml s.u.
    - `sudo systemctl restart k3s`
    - `vagrant ssh worker-0`
    - `sudo cp /vagrant/cert.pem /etc/ssl/certs/cert.pem`
    - Edit registries.yaml s.u.
    - `sudo systemctl restart k3s-agent`

`/etc/rancher/k3s/registries.yaml`:

```yaml
configs:
  "192.168.56.10":
    auth:
      username: ces-admin
      password: ces-admin
    tls:
      ca_file: /etc/ssl/certs/cert.pem
```

> ### Konfiguration certificate and registries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration certificate and registries
```

```bash

> kubectl --namespace ecosystem create secret generic docker-registry-cert --from-file=docker-registry-cert.pem=cert.pem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl --namespace ecosystem create secret generic docker-registry-cert --from-file=docker-registry-cert.pem=cert.pem
kubectl --namespace ecosystem create secret generic dogu-registry-cert --from-file=dogu-registry-cert.pem=cert.pem
```

```

- Delete secrets `k8s-dogu-operator-dogu-registry` and `k8s-dogu-operator-docker-registry`

```bash
kubectl --namespace ecosystem create secret generic k8s-dogu-operator-dogu-registry \
--from-literal=endpoint="https://192.168.56.10/nexus/repository/mirror" \
--from-literal=username="ces-admin" \
--from-literal=password="ces-admin" \
--from-literal=urlschema="index"
```

```bash
kubectl --namespace ecosystem create secret docker-registry k8s-dogu-operator-docker-registry \
 --docker-server="192.168.56.10" \
 --docker-username="ces-admin" \
 --docker-email="myemail@test.com" \
 --docker-password="ces-admin"
```

> ### Setup refresh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update setup configuration
```
